<div align="center">

AIME
AI-Molecular/Biological Infrastructure Engine
The inaugural open-source infrastructure project by xbioami-lab

English | 简体中文

</div>
🔹 The Genesis Line
Before building massive systems, we first complete the initial leap from carbon-based life to silicon-based computation with a single line of code:
import torch; digital_dna = torch.tensor([{'A':1, 'T':2, 'C':3, 'G':4}[base] for base in "ATCG"], dtype=torch.float32)
This is more than just syntax. It is the exact moment 4 billion years of evolutionary logic are transformed into a differentiable tensor entity capable of calculus on a GPU.
🔹 Why AIME?
The intersection of biology and digital intelligence is exploding, yet the underlying infrastructure is fractured.

Algorithm engineers struggle with the "dirtiness" and heterogeneity of biological data.
Biologists lack standardized pipelines to transform wet-lab data into AI-readable tensors.
There is no unified "language of life" tokenizer, making it nearly impossible to align multi-omics (genomics, proteomics, metabolomics) within the same latent space.
AIME is being built to fill this void. We aren't here to publish a benchmark-chasing paper. We are here so that in the future, when any top-tier lab wants to tackle bio-digital intelligence, they can simply pip install aime and instantly access the cleanest data, fastest tensor transformations, and most standard interfaces.
🔹 Architecture Blueprint
AIME will be constructed around the following foundational pillars (currently at V0.0.1, iterating rapidly):

aime.tokenizers: Tokenizers for the language of life. Moving beyond text to unified tokenization for sequences, 3D structures (coordinates), and graph networks.
aime.data: The sanitization pipelines for multi-omics. Ingesting messy FASTA, PDB, and H5AD formats, outputting pristine PyTorch Datasets.
aime.models: Lightweight, interpretable wrapper interfaces for foundational biological models.
aime.utils: High-performance parallelization utilities for high-throughput data processing.
🔹 Roadmap
 Phase 0: Establish project vision, write the Genesis Line.
 Phase 1: Implement highly optimized tokenizers for DNA/Protein sequences in aime.tokenizers.
 Phase 2: Build a robust, user-friendly PDB (Protein Data Bank) to Graph Tensor converter.
🔹 xbioami-lab
AIME is incubated within xbioami-lab. We believe that the future of biology lies not just in the pipettes of wet labs, but in the tensor flows of compute clusters. We are exploring the boundaries of X (the cross-disciplinary unknown).

One person can move fast, but infrastructure must be forged by a community.
If you are obsessed with the code of life merged with silicon, if you are tired of superficial applications and crave rewriting the rules from the ground up—

👉 Whether you are a C++/CUDA performance guru, a bioinformatics data architect, or simply a fellow lone pioneer—leave your mark in our Issues or Discussions. We don't need a perfect resume; we only need you to resonate with that single line of code.
